+++
title = "Overcoming the data drought: exploring general practice in Australia by network analysis of big data"
date = 2018-07-29T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["B Tran", "P Straka", "MO Falster", "KA Douglas", "T Britz", "LR Jorm"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "The Medical Journal of Australia 209 (2), 68-73"
publication_short = "Medical Journal of Australia"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = """
  Objectives: To investigate the organisation and characteristics of general practice in Australia by applying novel network analysis methods to national Medicare claims data.

  Design: We analysed Medicare claims for general practitioner consultations during 1994–2014 for a random 10% sample of Australian residents, and applied hierarchical block modelling to identify provider practice communities (PPCs).

  Participants: About 1.7 million patients per year.

  Main outcome measures: Numbers and characteristics of PPCs (including numbers of providers, patients and claims), proportion of bulk-billed claims, continuity of care, patient loyalty, patient sharing.

  Results: The number of PPCs fluctuated during the 21-year period; there were 7747 PPCs in 2014. The proportion of larger PPCs (six or more providers) increased from 32% in 1994 to 43% in 2014, while that of sole provider PPCs declined from 50% to 39%. The median annual number of claims per PPC increased from 5000 (IQR, 40–19 940) in 1994 to 9980 (190–23 800) in 2014; the proportion of PPCs that bulk-billed all patients was lowest in 2004 (21%) and highest in 2014 (29%). Continuity of care and patient loyalty were stable; in 2014, 50% of patients saw the same provider and 78% saw a provider in the same PPC for at least 75% of consultations. Density of patient sharing in a PPC was correlated with patient loyalty to that PPC.

  Conclusions: During 1994–2014, Australian GP practice communities have generally increased in size, but continuity of care and patient loyalty have remained stable. Our novel approach to the analysis of routinely collected data allows continuous monitoring of the characteristics of Australian general practices and their influence on patient care.
"""
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = "https://www.mja.com.au/sites/default/files/issues/209_02/mja17.01236-gr3.jpg"

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true


# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.mja.com.au/system/files/issues/209_02/10.5694mja17.01236.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = "https://github.com/CBDRH/GP-networks"
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [
    {name = "Podcast", url = "https://www.mja.com.au/podcast/209/2/mja-podcasts-2018-episode-57-big-gp-data-research-prof-louisa-jorm-and-dr-michael"},
    {name = "DOI", url = "https://dx.doi.org/10.5694/mja17.01236"},
    {name = "HTML", url = "https://www.mja.com.au/journal/2018/209/2/overcoming-data-drought-exploring-general-practice-australia-network-analysis"}
]

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["GP-networks"]


# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

See my [blog post for this publication](/post/2018-07-mja-paper/).
