+++
title = "Identification of pollutant source for super-diffusion in aquifers and rivers with bounded domains"
date = 2018-07-31T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Yong Zhang", "HongGuang Sun", "Roseanna M. Neupauer", "Peter Straka", "James F. Kelly", "Bingqing Lu", "Chunmiao Zheng"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Water Resources Research"
publication_short = "Water Resources Research"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = """
Backward models for super‐diffusion in infinite domains have been developed to identify pollutant sources, while backward models for non‐Fickian diffusion in bounded domains remain unknown. To restrict possible source locations and improve the accuracy of backward probabilities, this technical note develops the backward model for super‐diffusion governed by the fractional‐divergence advection‐dispersion equation (FD‐ADE) in bounded domains. The resultant backward model is the fractional‐flux advection‐dispersion equation (FF‐ADE) with modified boundary conditions. In particular, the Dirichlet boundary condition in the forward FD‐ADE becomes a spatial‐nonlocal sink term in the backward FF‐ADE (to account for preferential flow), while the nonlocal, non‐zero‐value Neumann (or Robin) boundary condition in the forward FD‐ADE switches to the zero‐value Robin (or Neumann) boundary condition in the backward FF‐ADE (to eliminate pollutant source outside the domain). Field applications show that the backward location probability density function can approximate the point source location in a natural river or fluvial aquifer. The impact of reflective/absorbing boundaries and the upstream boundary location on the backward probability density function is also discussed.
"""
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true


# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1029/2018WR023011"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [
    {name = "DOI", url = "https://doi.org/10.1029/2018WR023011"},
    {name = "HTML", url = "https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1029/2018WR023011"}
]

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["anomalous-diffusion"]


# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++


